[docs] Update CNG guide and consolidate Prebuild info for usage (#33586)
expo/expo: docs/pages/workflow/continuous-native-generation.mdx

---
title: Continuous Native Generation (CNG)
description: Learn about managing your native projects with Continuous Native Generation (CNG) and Prebuild.
sidebar_title: Continuous Native Generation
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

A single native project on its own is complicated to maintain, scale, and update. In a cross-platform app, you have multiple native projects that you must maintain and keep up to date with the latest operating system releases to avoid falling too far behind in any third-party dependencies. As native your project grows, the complexity from third-party dependencies increases, complicating upgrades and slowing down developer momentum. This discourages adding advanced native functionality and leads to less powerful apps. In cross-platform apps, this complexity is multiplied across each platform.

> As your project grows, the complexity involved with each third-party dependency increases and makes the app nearly impossible to upgrade &mdash; this drastically slows down developer momentum, discourages adding complex native functionality, and leads to less powerful apps. To combat these issues, we formalized a process called **Continuous Native Generation (CNG)**.

Reviewer: this is mostly redundant with the "as your native project grows" part above now.

Author: This intention was to keep the second paragraph as is. Sorry for the confusion.

---
title: Continuous Native Generation (CNG)
description: Learn about managing your native projects with Continuous Native Generation (CNG) and Prebuild.
sidebar_title: Continuous Native Generation
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> As native your project grows, the complexity from third-party dependencies increases, complicating upgrades and slowing down developer momentum. This discourages adding advanced native functionality and leads to less powerful apps. In cross-platform apps, this complexity is multiplied across each platform.

Reviewer 2: i think i prefer the original introduction here

> To address this, we introduced **Continuous Native Generation** as a concept, which generates short-lived native projects from inputs like configuration and code, resulting in a compatible native project that can be compiled into a native app.

Author: @keith-kurak, I've added the original introduction of this page. Is it still relevant?

> This concept describes the process of [Expo Prebuild](#usage), which is a command to create native projects for React Native apps, provided by [Expo CLI](/more/expo-cli/). However, CNG is not limited to React Native or cross-platform apps.

Author: @keith-kurak, I've added the original introduction of this page. Is it still relevant?

6. EAS Credentials for code signing additional targets and entitlements.

This boils down to a workflow where a developer can express any native application with the app config and generate that project continuously &mdash; by running `npx expo prebuild`.

## Usage

Prebuild can be used by running:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild']} />

This creates the **android** and **ios** directories for running your React code. If you modify the generated directories manually then you risk losing your changes the next time you run `npx expo prebuild --clean`. Instead, use [config plugins](/config-plugins/introduction/) &mdash; functions that perform modifications on native projects during prebuild.

We highly recommend using Prebuild for the reasons listed in the [common questions](#prebuild) section, but the system is [fully optional](#optionality), and you can stop using it at any time.

### Usage with EAS Build

If your project does not contain **android** and **ios** directories, EAS Build will run Prebuild to generate these native directories before compilation. This is the default behavior for any project created using `npx create-expo-app`.

> For a project that has **android** and **ios** directories, EAS Build will not run Prebuild by default to avoid overwriting any changes you've made to the native directories.

Author: I've removed "by default" as per your suggestion. I think "in order to" is just verbose way of representing "to" in the above sentence.

> For a project that has **android** and **ios** directories, EAS Build will not run Prebuild by default to avoid overwriting any changes you've made to the native directories.

Reviewer: I was more just trying to remove the "by default" ... I'm not aware of an option to force prebuild to run if the native projects are present.

```diff .gitignore
+ /android
+ /ios
```

### Usage with Expo CLI run commands

You can perform a native build locally by running:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Build your native Android project',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '',
    '# Build your native iOS project',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

If native directories are absent, `npx expo prebuild` will run once for the specific platform. On subsequent uses of these `run` commands, manually run `npx expo prebuild` to ensure the native code is freshly synchronized with your local configuration.

## Platform support

Prebuild currently supports Android and iOS. Web support is not required because there is no native project to generate for the web and the web app it runs in a web browser.Use the `--platform` option to build for individual platforms:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild --platform ios']} />

## Dependencies

> Prebuild begins by initializing new native projects from a template corresponding to each Expo SDK version. This also aligns with specific React and React Native versions. Your project's React and React Native versions will update to the versions specified in the `dependencies` field of the [template's **package.json**](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum) if they differ.

Author: It is listed under Prebuild options so I think its still valid:

![CleanShot 2024-12-16 at 17 44 48@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ed323951-95be-4a1e-9e53-d7a00f48fdfd)

Having a lower react-native version in a project than the expected, it didn't throw me the warning that you mentioned:

![CleanShot 2024-12-16 at 17 48 08@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05164700-840c-4375-be72-11f44d568c8b)

> Prebuild begins by initializing new native projects from a template corresponding to each Expo SDK version. This also aligns with specific React and React Native versions. Your project's React and React Native versions will update to the versions specified in the `dependencies` field of the [template's **package.json**](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum) if they differ.

Reviewer: <img width="536" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3cdad2e1-3f0f-4737-9e55-ed40395e9bf5" />
this is what I was thinking of... when you don't provide that flag, it still doesn't update package.json to the RN in the template.

> Prebuild begins by initializing new native projects from a template corresponding to each Expo SDK version. This also aligns with specific React and React Native versions. Your project's React and React Native versions will update to the versions specified in the `dependencies` field of the [template's **package.json**](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum) if they differ.

Author: Got it. I've updated that this will throw the warning instead of upgrading the dependencies on its own.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild --skip-dependency-update react-native,react']} />

## Package managers

When the [dependencies](#dependencies) are changed, Prebuild will reinstall libraries using the package manager that is currently used in the project (this is inferred from the lockfile). You can force a specific package manager by providing one of: `--npm`, `--yarn`, `--pnpm`.

All installations can be skipped by passing the `--no-install` command, which is useful for testing generation quickly.

## Clean

The `--clean` option deletes any existing native directories before generating. Re-running `npx expo prebuild` without the `--clean` option will layer changes on top of the existing files, which is faster, but may not produce the same results in some cases.

For example, some config plugins aren't idempotent. When a project utilizes multiple "dangerous modifiers" to add regex changes to an app's code, it can lead to unexpected behavior. This is why using the `--clean` option is the safest way to use the prebuild command and is generally recommended in most cases.

#### Using `--clean` option

> When using the `--clean` option, you'll be warned to have a clean git status due its destructive nature. This prompt is optional and will be skipped when encountered in CI. You can disable this check by enabling the environment variable `EXPO_NO_GIT_STATUS=1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `--clean` option, you'll be warned if you have any uncommitted changes to your git code repository, as this option will delete and recreate all of your native project files. This prompt is optional and will be skipped when encountered in CI. You can disable this check by enabling the environment variable `EXPO_NO_GIT_STATUS=1`.
```

> This prompts aims to encourage developers to add **android** and **ios** directories to the project's **.gitignore** or **.easignore**. This ensures that these directories are always generated by prebuild. However, this can make custom config plugins harder to develop so we haven't introduced any mechanism to enforce this behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prompts aims to encourage developers to add **android** and **ios** directories to the project's **.gitignore** or **.easignore**. This ensures that these directories are always generated by prebuild. However, this can make custom config plugins more difficult to develop, so we haven't introduced any mechanism to enforce this behavior.
```
I'm actually not sure why this would make config plugins more difficult to develop. I would expect to be continuously cleaning my native directories and diffing against some other set of native files, or maybe I would be on a branch where I committed the native files, and then I would keep cleaning until my diff looked right.

Author: I copied all prebuild info from the existing Prebuild page. I am not sure either but might be a good question to ask to a Subject Matter Expert.

Reviewer: We could also consider striking the paragraph entirely. I'm not sure the prompt does a particularly good job of encouraging developers to add those folders to gitignore. The prompt itself doesn't say anything to recommend this.

There are cases where developers may want to swap between workflows often. For example, you may want to build custom functionality natively in Android Studio and Xcode, and then move that functionality into local config plugins.

## Templates

You can customize how the native folders are generated by [config plugins](/config-plugins/introduction). Many config plugins already exist for lots of modifications, and community libraries often ship their own as well. You can [see a list of some popular plugins](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins) for more information.

> Prebuild starts from template files which are then modified with config plugins. The template files are based on the Expo SDK version and come from the npm package [`expo-template-bare-minimum`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum). You can change the template used by passing `--template /path/to/template.tgz` to the `npx expo prebuild` command. This is not generally recommended because the base modifiers in `@expo/prebuild-config` make some undocumented assumptions about the template files, so it may be tricky to maintain your custom template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prebuild starts from template files, which are then modified with config plugins. The template files are based on the Expo SDK version and come from the npm package [`expo-template-bare-minimum`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum). You can change the template used by passing `--template /path/to/template.tgz` to the `npx expo prebuild` command. This is not generally recommended because the base modifiers in `@expo/prebuild-config` make some undocumented assumptions about the template files, so it may be tricky to maintain your custom template.
```

Author: I am not sure why a comma is required here to break the sentence.

Reviewer: No strong opinion, but I think it's a restrictive clause. Intuitively while speaking, you would pause before the "which", which is often (but not always) suggestive of a comma.

> **Note:** In network environments where all packages are downloaded from a private registry and npm public registry access is blocked, a locally-available template must be passed to the prebuild command. [Learn more about using a local version of the default template](https://expo.fyi/prebuild-without-npm-access).

## Side effects

`npx expo prebuild` performs several side effects outside of generating the **android** and **ios** directories. Work is in progress to eliminate these side effects &mdash; ideally, running `npx expo prebuild` would generate the Android and iOS projects and leave the rest of the project untouched.

In addition to generating the native folders, prebuild also makes the following modifications:

> - Modifies the `scripts` field in the **package.json**

Reviewer: would be good to describe what is change is. I thought it was changing the ios/android commands to `expo run:ios|android` or something?

Author: You are right. It does adds `expo run` commands and replaces the `start` command in the default template.

![CleanShot 2024-12-16 at 17 54 24@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d236ad93-4ad7-4b90-815f-011059c9c58b)

Author: description added.

- Modifies the `dependencies` field in the **package.json**

The convenience change to the `scripts` field is the only side effect that alters how a developer works on their app before/after prebuild. All other changes can be left in place and committed to git to minimize the diff when running prebuild.

## Optionality

> Prebuild is optional and works seamlessly with all Expo tools and services. For existing React Native projects do not use `npx expo prebuild` &mdash; developers can make ([direct changes to their native projects](/more/glossary-of-terms/#bare-workflow)), rather than continuously generating them on demand as with prebuild command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prebuild is optional and works seamlessly with all Expo tools and services. For existing React Native projects where the native projects are managed manually, do not use `npx expo prebuild`, as that may overwrite any customizations made manually. Developers can continue to make ([direct changes to their native projects](/more/glossary-of-terms/#bare-workflow)) while adopting other Expo tools and workflows. Later on, they can move their manual customizations to app config and/or config plugins, and then adopt CNG.
```

## Common questions

### CNG

<Collapsible summary="How does CNG helps with project upgrades?">

React Native developers who don't use **Continuous Native Generation** have reported that upgrading their apps to the latest version of React Native is the number one weakness of the library as per [React Native Survey (2022)](https://results.2022.stateofreactnative.com/opinions/#opinions_pain_points).

When using CNG, the upgrade process simply involves upgrading the npm dependencies, app config, and re-running `npx expo prebuild --clean`.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How a React Native library author can adopt CNG?">

React Native library authors can adopt CNG in several ways. It depends on the complexity of their libraries. Here are a few scenarios:

> - **No native code or configuration side-effects**: Libraries without native code or configuration side-effects, such as `react-native-blurhash`, can seamlessly integrate with `npx expo prebuild`. They can rely on Node Module Resolution and Expo Autolinking to link into the native project without requiring any additional configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No native code or configuration side-effects**: Libraries without native code or configuration side-effects, such as `react-native-blurhash`, can seamlessly integrate with `npx expo prebuild`. They can rely on Node Module Resolution without requiring any additional configuration.
```
No native code = no autolinking needed

> - **Native code with no additional setup after install**: Libraries with native code can often be installed and linked automatically with [Expo Autolinking](/more/glossary-of-terms#autolinking) which runs before the native app is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Native code with no additional setup after install**: Libraries with native code can often be installed and linked automatically with [Expo Autolinking](/more/glossary-of-terms#autolinking), which runs before the native app is built.
```

- **Additional configuration side-effects and setup**: Libraries that require additional configuration side-effects can adopt CNG by creating [Expo Config Plugins](/config-plugins/introduction/) for their libraries. This approach enables library authors to automate adding values such as permission messages to the **Info.plist**, or injecting targets in the Xcode project.

> - **Libraries Dependent on Native Runtime Hooks**: Libraries that depend on specific native runtime hooks, such as intercepting the initial launch URL via the `AppDelegate`, `MainActivity`, `MainApplication`, and so on, can utilize [**Lifecycle listeners**](/modules/android-lifecycle-listeners/) to minimize the side-effects of their library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Libraries Dependent on Native Runtime Hooks**: Libraries that depend on specific native runtime hooks, such as intercepting the initial launch URL via the `AppDelegate`, `MainActivity`, `MainApplication`, and so on, can utilize [**Lifecycle listeners**](/modules/android-lifecycle-listeners/) in the Expo Modules API. These lifecycle listeners allow these runtime hooks to be applied via Expo Autolinking instead of by modifying these standard native project files, eliminating the need for a config plugin.
```

Many complex libraries and services already support CNG via Expo Prebuild such as, [MapBox](https://github.com/rnmapbox/maps), [OneSignal](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin), [Stripe](https://github.com/stripe/stripe-react-native), and [React Native Firebase](https://rnfirebase.io/#expo).

> Adopting CNG by library authors is not a preqrequisite for using `npx expo prebuild`. If a library author has not adopted, developers can still use `npx expo prebuild` by creating local [Config Plugins](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/) to modify the native generation pipeline. This flexibility makes CNG accessible and beneficial to all developers within the React Native community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adopting CNG by library authors is not a preqrequisite for using `npx expo prebuild`. If a library author has not adopted CNG, developers can still use `npx expo prebuild` by creating local [Config Plugins](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/) to modify the native generation pipeline. This flexibility makes CNG accessible and beneficial to all developers within the React Native community.
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Is CNG limited to React Native projects?">

No, CNG is a versatile pattern that can be applied to any native project. While Expo Prebuild is a tool that implements CNG specifically for React Native projects, the concept itself is not limited to this framework.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How does community uses CNG?">

> Here are a few community examples of difficult native features converted into simple configuration files, which has allowed developers to build more powerful apps without compromising on iteration speed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few community examples of difficult native features converted into simple configuration files, which have allowed developers to build more powerful apps without compromising on iteration speed:
```

> - [iOS Safari Extensions](https://github.com/andrew-levy/react-native-safari-extension): You can see the process of creating a Safari Extension for iOS, which is a notoriously difficult feature to implement, boiled down to a couple of lines of JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [iOS Safari Extensions](https://github.com/andrew-levy/react-native-safari-extension): Here, the process of creating a Safari Extension for iOS, which is a notoriously difficult feature to implement, is reduced to a few of lines of JSON.
```

- [iMessage Sticker App](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/tree/main/packages/ios-stickers): This Expo Config Plugin can generate an entire iMessage Sticker App from a JSON object.

> - [Cross-platform End-2-End testing](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/tree/main/packages/detox): Configure native apps to support E2E testing with Detox in a single-line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cross-platform end-to-end testing](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/tree/main/packages/detox): Configure native apps to support E2E testing with Detox in a single-line.
```

> - [Entire Firebase suite](https://rnfirebase.io/): Here you can see the entire native Firebase suite going from a multi-step native process across multiple IDEs, down to basic JSON configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [The entire Firebase suite](https://rnfirebase.io/): Here you can see the entire native Firebase suite going from a multi-step native configuration process across multiple IDEs, down to basic JSON configuration.
```

> - [Cross-platform Home screen Widgets](https://github.com/gaishimo/eas-widget-example): This Expo Config Plugin can generate a home screen widget for Android and iOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cross-platform home screen widgets](https://github.com/gaishimo/eas-widget-example): This Expo config plugin can generate a home screen widget for Android and iOS.
```

> - [Notification extension and code signing](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin): This Expo Config Plugin not only generates a notification extension target on iOS. However, it also augments the EAS credentials service to keep zero-config code signing working.

Reviewer: We don't capitalize "Config Plugin" elsewhere, so I think all of these should be changed to "config plugin"

> - [Notification extension and code signing](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin): This Expo Config Plugin not only generates a notification extension target on iOS. However, it also augments the EAS credentials service to keep zero-config code signing working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Notification extension and code signing](https://github.com/OneSignal/onesignal-expo-plugin): This Expo config plugin generates a notification extension target on iOS and it augments the EAS credentials service to keep zero-config code signing working.
```

> - [Apple App Clips](https://github.com/bndkt/react-native-app-clip): This Expo Config Plugin takes the process of generating an Apple App Clip from a multi-step process, ranging across multiple targets, and shakes it down to a single line `["react-native-app-clip", { "name": "My App Clip" }]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Apple App Clips](https://github.com/bndkt/react-native-app-clip): This Expo config plugin takes the process of generating an Apple App Clip from a multi-step process, ranging across multiple targets, and reduces it to a single line `["react-native-app-clip", { "name": "My App Clip" }]`.
```

> At any point, these features can be easily added and removed, without any side effects. CNG allows developers to experiment with complex features, and iterate on them quickly without worrying about the long-term maintenance costs or potential orphaned code in their project or uncommitted native caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any point, these features can be easily added and removed, without any side effects. CNG allows developers to experiment with complex features and iterate on them quickly without worrying about the long-term maintenance costs or potential orphaned code in their project, or uncommitted native caches.
```
Some of this sound fluffy... not quite sure what an "uncommitted native cache" is.

Author: I've decided to remove this as I am not sure what this means.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Can CNG be used for operating systems other than Android and iOS?">

> Absolutely! CNG is an abstract concept that can be applied to any operating system. Take Expo for example, although Expo Prebuild officially implements CNG for Android and iOS, it also provides abstract platform support for developers to create implementations for additional platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Absolutely! CNG is an abstract concept that can be applied to any operating system. Although Expo Prebuild officially implements CNG for Android and iOS, it also provides abstract platform support for developers to create implementations for additional platforms.
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How does CNG compare to web development patterns such as Static Site Generation (SSG)?">

CNG shares similarities with SSG in that it generates a project from a set of inputs. However, CNG differs from SSG in its output. It generates native runtime code instead of static website code. This means the native project is generated on-demand, and the generated source code and configuration are discarded once the native project is compiled into a native app.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Is it possible to use CNG with an existing brownfield project?">

CNG is designed to manage the entire state of a native project continuously. As a result, it's not intended for use with existing brownfield projects. However, you can use CNG to generate a new native project, which can then be integrated into an existing brownfield project.

</Collapsible>

### Prebuild

Expo Prebuild streamlines CNG processing. Here are some issues in the React Native development cycle that are addressed by Prebuild:

> <Collapsible summary="How Prebuild helps with sensible project upgrades?">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="How Prebuild helps streamline project upgrades">
```
These all had question marks but weren't all actually questions. Alternatively, make these all actual questions.

Building native code requires familiarity with the platform's tooling, creating a steep learning curve. This challenge intensifies in cross-platform development due to multiple platforms. Cross-platform tooling doesn't help if you must implement many features in platform-specific native code.

> When bootstrapping a native app, there's initial code and configuration that you may not understand but you own it. Eventually, you'll need to understand this code to upgrade your app safely. This challenge often leads developers to upgrade incorrectly or start a new app, copying existing source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When bootstrapping a native app, there's initial code and configuration that you may not understand. yet you are not responsible for maintaining it. Eventually, you'll need to understand this code to upgrade your app safely. This challenge often leads developers to upgrade incorrectly or start a new app, copying existing source code.
```

> **With Prebuild** upgrading is much closer to upgrading a pure JavaScript application. Bump the versions in your **package.json** and regenerate the native project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**With Prebuild**, upgrading is much closer to upgrading a pure JavaScript application. Bump the versions in your **package.json**, regenerate the native project, and you should be ready to continue development.
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How does Prebuild simplify cross-platform configuration?">

> Cross-platform configurations such as the app icon, name, splash screen, and so on must be implemented manually in native code. These are often implemented very differently across platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-platform configurations such as the app icon, name, splash screen, and so on must be implemented manually in native code. These implementations are often quite different for each platform.
```

**With Prebuild** cross-platform configurations are handled at the config plugin level, and the developer only needs to set a single value like `"icon": "./icon.png"` to have all icon generation taken care of.

</Collapsible>

> <Collapsible summary="How to manage dependency side-effects with Prebuild?">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="How to manage dependency side effects with Prebuild">
```

Many complex native packages require additional setup beyond installing and [autolinking](/more/glossary-of-terms#autolinking). For example, a camera library requires permission settings to be added **AndroidManifest.xml** for Android and **Info.plist** for iOS. This additional setup can be considered a configuration side effect of a package. Pasting the required side effect code into your project's native files can lead to difficult native compilation errors, and it's also code that you now own and maintain.

**With Prebuild** library authors, who know how to configure their library better than anyone, can create a testable and versioned script called a [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/), to automate adding the required configuration side effects for their library. This means library side effects can be more expressive, powerful, and stable. For native code side effects, we also provide [Android Lifecycle Listeners](/modules/android-lifecycle-listeners) and [AppDelegate Subscribers](/modules/appdelegate-subscribers) which come standard in the default [prebuild template](#templates).

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="How does Prebuild help with orphaned code?">

> When you uninstall a package you have to be certain you removed all of the side effects required to make that package work. If you miss anything, it leads to orphaned code that you cannot trace back to any particular package, this code builds up and makes your project harder to understand and maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you uninstall a package, you have to be certain you removed all of the side effects required to make that package work. If you miss anything, it leads to orphaned code that you cannot trace back to any particular package, this code builds up and makes your project harder to understand and maintain.
```

**With Prebuild** the only side effect is the [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/) in a project's Expo config (**app.json**), which will throw an error when the corresponding node module has been uninstalled, meaning a lot less orphaned configuration.

</Collapsible>

> <Collapsible summary="When Prebuild might not be the right fit for a project?">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="When Prebuild might not be the right fit for a project">
```

Here are some reasons Expo Prebuild might **not** be the right fit for a particular project:

> #### React Native versioning

Reviewer: Lately, we've released in conjunction with RN releases and not necessarily quarterly. However, this is a moving target, with flexibility in recent SDK's to use multiple versions. So, not entirely sure what should be in this section; you might consider just striking the entire thing.

Author: Done, removed this section.

`npx expo prebuild` generates native code based on the version of `expo` a project has installed, so a project with SDK 50 (`expo@50.0.0`) would generate a `react-native@0.73` app.

Expo releases a new version approximately every quarter, and `react-native` does not follow a calendar-based release schedule. This means there are times when you cannot use `npx expo prebuild` with the latest release of React Native. This could potentially be circumvented by using a custom [prebuild template](#templates) if you are willing to experiment. You can also mitigate this by cherry-picking any changes you need from the latest version of React Native into a fork and using that in your project.

#### Platform compatibility

Prebuild can only be used for native platforms that are supported by the Expo SDK. This means Android and iOS for the time being. Except for web, which doesn't require `npx expo prebuild` since it uses the browser instead of a custom native runtime.

#### Making changes directly is quicker than modularizing and automating

> All native changes must be added with native modules (using React Native's built-in Native Module APIs or the Expo Modules API) and config plugins. This means if you want to quickly add a native file to your project to experiment, then you may be better off running prebuild and adding the file manually, then working your way back into the system with a [monorepo](/guides/monorepos). We plan to speed this process up by adding functionality to [Expo Autolinking](/more/glossary-of-terms#expo-autolinking) that finds project native files outside of the native folders and links them before building.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All native changes must be added with native modules (using React Native's built-in Native Module APIs or the Expo Modules API) and config plugins. This means if you want to quickly add a native file to your project to experiment, then you may be better off running prebuild and adding the file manually, then working your way back into the system with a [monorepo](/guides/monorepos). We plan to speed this process up by adding functionality to [Expo Autolinking](/more/glossary-of-terms#expo-autolinking) that finds native project files outside of the native folders and links them before building.
```
